--- THE POINT (verbatim, work-order point 1048) ---
The batch crawled through the night while every safeguard reported health:
the owner waited on stacked watchers that can never return (measured 03.09.2026,
00:55–01:15, live in the stalled session). Between the communication-point merge at
23:05 and the next main commit at 00:52 the owning session advanced nothing, yet held a
fresh heartbeat the whole time, so the launcher skipped every tick with "owner alive"
and only WARNED about the published now-card ETA running 81+ minutes past. The session
woke roughly every ten minutes, spawned another background watcher of the form
`while pgrep -f "npm exec vitest" >/dev/null; do sleep 30; done`, and blocked again —
ten such shells stood at 01:00. Each watcher's own command line contains the literal
pattern, so pgrep finds the sibling watchers themselves and the loops cannot terminate:
every wait was for a run that had already finished. The session's own instructions name
`scripts/verify/run-wait.mjs --await` as THE blocking wait; the hand-rolled watchers
bypassed it. A stale `.claude/batch-in-flight.json` of a pid dead since the afternoon
kept "a verification is running" plausible the whole time. This is the wedge point 958
predicts — a session that keeps making tool calls never trips the emergency clock —
observed in production. The infrastructure freeze of 01.09.2026 admits this point
through its blockade exception: the defect reproducibly stalled the batch for hours.
Final state:
- Two authors work BLIND-PARALLEL from identical inputs (this point's text), cross-vendor,
  each delivering an independent root-cause analysis plus a solution proposal covering at
  least: the self-matching watcher pattern, the unbounded watcher stacking, heartbeat
  read as liveness while no progress happens, the launcher's warn-only overdue ETA, and
  stale in-flight markers of dead pids. A third model that wrote neither proposal merges
  them through `scripts/blind-merge.mjs`, counted entry by entry; the merged solution is
  then implemented. (User order 03.09.2026, verbatim: "mache direkt einen Punkt, der das
  Problem blind mit vier Augen analysiert und eine zuverlässige Lösung entwickelt, die
  sicher verhindert, dass so etwas noch mal passieren kann. Lasse die
  Lösungungsvorschläge dann von einem dritten Modell zusammenführen und danach
  umsetzen.")
- The merged solution keys recovery on observable PROGRESS rather than liveness: a
  session whose waits can never return is detected and recovered from without a human,
  within a bounded time the solution states and tests. The user is away for days at a
  time; "Die Batch darf niemals stehenbleiben" (user, 03.09.2026).
- Overlap with 947 (blind sweep of every way the batch can stop) and 958 (the busy wedge
  the emergency clock cannot see) is resolved by the merge — this point supersedes or
  narrows them rather than duplicating their mechanism.
- A SECOND wedge shape, measured live 03.09.2026 17:45–17:47 in the owning session, is
  covered by the same analysis: after `batch-boundary --commit` the boundary refuses
  every tool call (the 90 s sleep and the clock included), while `ci-status-guard`
  refuses every turn end until the pushed ref's CI concludes — and prescribes exactly
  the refused wait. The session could neither work nor stop and emitted identical
  farewell messages until the user intervened; the boundary marker was then invalidated
  by the first later mutation, silently re-opening the handed-over batch. The merged
  solution must resolve guard pairs that jointly demand and forbid the same action
  (e.g. the boundary exempts the wait a Stop guard prescribes, or ci-status-guard
  stands down for a committed boundary).
Test: Vitest over the decision cores the merged solution lands in, replaying the
incident's shape — alive heartbeat plus eternal waits plus no main progress leads to
recovery within the stated bound; a drill that calls the real recovery path per the
drills rule, not a recreation of its aftermath.
Criticality: high — hours of unattended standstill with every monitor green, on the one
path that may never block.
Refs: scripts/batch-emergency-core.mjs, scripts/batch-standstill-core.mjs,
scripts/batch-launcher.mjs, scripts/batch-in-flight.mjs, scripts/verify/run-wait.mjs,
.claude/batch-launcher.log (02./03.09. ticks)
Bundle: Urlaubsfestigkeit (not worked beside 947, 958, 985 or 1002 — they edit the
same emergency/standstill decision core).

--- ORIENTATION (GENERATED HINT — the spec decides, this only says where to look) ---
